Design Patterns

Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software

	In the year 1995 Gang of Four has published the book about design patterns.
	
	The autors of this book - Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson and
	John Vlissides - described in it a number of classic software design
	patterns, which are a simple and elegant solution to common programming
	problems.
	
	Factory, Observer, Composite and Singleton - probably most of you have heard about 
	them or have used them.
	
	In my speech I would like to describe and explain with examples of five design patterns.
	
	I would like to introduce you: Factory, Strategy, Mediator, Observer and State.
	
	Let me explain at first the factory:
	
	(1)
	
	Factory allows you to create families of dependent or matched object in an abstract way,
	without describing specific classes.
	
	* TypeScript example
	
	(2)
	
	The strategy pattern is a behavioral software pattern that enables selecting an algorithm at runtime.
	Instead of implementing a single algorithm directly, code rceives run-time instructions as to which in 
	a family of algorithms to use.
	
	(3)
	
	The mediator pattern defines an object that encapsulates how to set of objects interact.
	
	I have chosen a vary of programming languages to examples because I wanted to demostrate how universal
	knowledge it is.
	
	To explain mediator I will show simple game written in JavaScript.
	
	*JavaScript example
	
	As you can see objects no longer communicate directly with each other, but instead of communicate throught the mediator.
	
	This reduces the dependencies between communicating objects, thereby reducing coupling.
	
	(4)
	
	The observer pattern is a software design pattern in which an object, called the subject, maintains a list of
	its dependents, called observers and notifies them automatically of any state changes, usually by calling one of
	their methods.
	
	C# example
	
	(5) 
	
	The state pattern is a behavioral software design pattern that allows an object to alter its behavior when its
	internal state changes.
	
	This pattern is set to solve two main problems:
	- an object should change its behavior when its internal state changes
	- state-specific behavior should be defined independently. That is, adding new states should not affect the behavior of existing states.
	
	C# example
	
	
	(4)